**Concordant protein biomarker candidates for Large Vessel Occlusion (LVO) detection using aptamer-based proteomics across two independent cohorts**
Differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified using a 1.2-fold change threshold (ratio of magnitude of change comparing LVO with non-LVO groups) and an unadjusted p-value <0.05 from Welch’s t-test in each cohort. To determine biological plausibility, Gene Ontology analysis of these DAPs was conducted using the clusterProfiler R package. We identified concordant enriched pathways using FDR-corrected p-value <0.05 across both cohorts.
Concordant DAPs that were significantly different with the same direction of change were identified across both independent cohorts and adjusted for clinical covariates in bivariable logistic regression analysis.
Next, we built a logistic regression model to determine the association between baseline NIHSS (bNIHSS) and the presence of LVO within the separate cohorts (Model 1). We then built logistic regression models to evaluate the associations between each concordant DAP (continuous) and the presence of LVO within the separate cohorts (Model 2). We adjusted DAPs in Model 2 for bNIHSS (Model 3). Concordant DAPs significant in the bNIHSS-adjusted models in both cohorts were selected as features using forward selection in addition to bNIHSS for multivariable modeling (Model 4). For Model 4, different biomarker combinations were tested, and only the concordant pairs with adjusted p <0.05 were retained in the model. We evaluated the discriminative performance of each model using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROC). We calculated their sensitivity and specificity at 0.30 predicted probability to maximize sensitivity (not missing any LVOs). The positive and negative predictive values (PPV and NPV) were calculated at 0.25 and 0.50 pre-test probability cut-offs to approximate the expected prevalence of LVO among AIS subjects across different clinical settings that range from 25 to 50%.
We then created prediction models by adding DAP pairs to prehospital stroke scales (RACE, G-FAST, mG-FAST) using forward selection. The added value of concordant DAPs over NIHSS and prehospital stroke scales for LVO classification was tested with DeLong’s method, Net Reclassification Index (NRI), and Integrated Discrimination Improvement (IDI) index. Corrections for optimistic predictions were performed through bootstrapping with 1000 resamples and estimation of 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
We conducted an exploratory analysis in the YNHH cohort to examine whether concordant DAPs identified in the main analysis could classify LVO within a subset of subjects presenting within 30 hours of stroke onset. In a secondary analysis of the GMH cohort, we evaluated whether combining concordant DAPs with previously identified ICH-specific DAPs, added to bNIHSS, improves LVO classification versus a broader control group (non-LVO AIS, ICH, TIA, and MIM) and reduces false positives due to ICH. All analyses were performed with R version 4.6.0.
